I am Charles Hardin Holley, also known as
Buddy Holly. born in 1936, Lubbock, Texas,
The United States. I am an American singer
and songwriter who produced some of the most
distinctive and influential works in rock music.
I came from a devout Baptists family in the West
Texas town of Lubbock, and gospel music was an
important part of my life from an early age. I
became seriously interested in music at about age
12 and pursued it with remarkable natural ability.
The African American rhythm and blues that I
heard on the radio had a tremendous impact on me.
In 1956, I signed with Decca Records’ Nashville,
but the records we made sold poorly. That didn’t
break me and in 1957, I formed a new group called
the Crickets which began my association with
independent producer, Norman Petty at his studio
in New Mexico. This was when the magic began.
We created a series of recordings that displayed
an emotional intimacy and sense of detail that
set us apart from other 1950s rock and roll.
Our recordings sounded classy, expensive,
and featured unusual microphone placement
techniques, and imaginative echo chamber effects,
a process that in the 1950s meant superimposing
one recording on another. Our first single,
“That’ll Be the Day”, was released in 1957.
We followed with more hits such as Peggy Sue,
every day, and Rave On! They had an irrepressible
spirit, and by year’s end, our songs became
international multi-million-sellers. Due to
conflicts with Petty, I had to participate
in the doomed “Winter Dance Party of
1959” tour through the frozen Midwest,
during which I and co-headliners Ritchie Valens
and the Big Bopper were killed in a plane crash.
Our innovative use of the studio and the fact
that we wrote most of our songs ourselves made
us the single most important influence on
the Beatles. I was inducted into the Rock
and Roll Hall of Fame and honored by the National
Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences. I hope my
recordings are still an inspiration and convey
a sense of the wide-open spaces of our world.